README.md, before:

# Motivation
Experiences in intiatives addressing eliminating preventable blindness and seeing the impact improved vision has.

# Awesome list
## Calculators
[Procurement calculator for trichiasis management](https://www.trachomacoalition.org/resources/procurement-calculator-trichiasis-management)

## Articles, Reports, Presentations, & Dashboards
[The Lancet Global Health Commission on Global Eye Health: vision beyond 2022](https://www.thelancet.com/journals/langlo/article/PIIS2214-109X(20)30488-5/fulltext)

[Magnitude, temporal trends, and projections of the global prevalence of blindness and distance and near vision impairment: a systematic review and meta-analysis](https://www.thelancet.com/journals/langlo/article/PIIS2214-109X(17)30293-0/fulltext)

[Global estimates of visual impairment: 2010](https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/22133988/)

[Evaluation of a national eye care programme: re-survey after 10 years](https://bjo.bmj.com/content/84/9/948)

[Ten years to VISION 2020: how are we doing?](https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC3033617/)

[VISION 2020 - IAPB](https://www.iapb.org/about/history/vision-2020/)

[Universal eye health: a global action plan 2014–2019](https://www.who.int/publications/i/item/universal-eye-health-a-global-action-plan-2014-2019)

[World Report On Vision](https://www.iapb.org/advocate/eye-health-and-universal-health-coverage/world-report-on-vision/)

[Vision Atlas - IAPB](https://www.iapb.org/learn/vision-atlas/)

[World report on vision](https://www.who.int/publications/i/item/9789241516570)

[Video: Eye Health and the SDGs - The Lancet Global Health Commision on Global Eye Health](https://globaleyehealthcommission.org/commentary/video-eye-health-and-the-sdgs)

[Video: Equity in eye health - The Lancet Global Health Commision on Global Eye Health](https://globaleyehealthcommission.org/commentary/video-equality-in-eye-health/)

[Video: The economics of eye health - The Lancet Global Health Commision on Global Eye Health](https://globaleyehealthcommission.org/commentary/video-the-economics-of-eye-health/)

[Video: General health, wellbeing and mortality](https://globaleyehealthcommission.org/commentary/video-general-health-wellbeing-and-mortality/)

[Global Eye Health - One Billion Untreated](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=5jgRMTyCG_M)

[Outcomes of high volume cataract surgeries in a developing country](https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC1772816/)

[Unravelling ‘low-resource settings’: a systematic scoping review with qualitative content analysis](https://gh.bmj.com/content/6/6/e005190)

[Cataract and “Vision 2020—the right to sight” initiative](https://bjo.bmj.com/content/85/6/635)

[Cataract services: ensuring access for everyone](https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC4069773/)

[Beyond the clinic: approaches to outreach](https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC1705639/)

[Routine monitoring of visual outcome of cataract surgery. Part 1: Development of an instrument](https://bjo.bmj.com/content/89/1/45)

[Mapping Human Resources for Eye Health in Sub-Saharan Africa: Progress towards VISION 2020](https://www.iapb.org/learn/resources/mapping-human-resources-for-eye-health-in-sub-saharan-africa-progress-towards-vision-2020/)

[Optical services through outreach in South India: a case study from Aravind Eye Hospitals](https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC1705643/)

[Delivering refractive error services: primary eye care centres and outreach.](https://www.cehjournal.org/wp-content/uploads/download/ceh_20_63_042.pdf)

[Global Vision Impairment Due to Uncorrected Presbyopia](https://jamanetwork.com/journals/jamaophthalmology/fullarticle/420914)

[Global magnitude of visual impairment caused by uncorrected refractive errors in 2004](https://www.who.int/bulletin/volumes/86/1/07-041210.pdf)

[Uncorrected refractive errors](https://journals.lww.com/ijo/Fulltext/2012/60050/Uncorrected_refractive_errors.18.aspx)

[School Eye Health Guidelines](https://www.iapb.org/learn/resources/school-eye-health-guidelines/)

[Spectacle Wear Among Children in a School-Based Program for Ready-Made vs Custom-Made Spectacles in India: A Randomized Clinical Trial](https://jamanetwork.com/journals/jamaophthalmology/fullarticle/2618257)

[Current trends in surgical management of myopia](https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC6688407)

[Pharmaceutical intervention for myopia control](https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC3023964/)

[How to prescribe spectacles for presbyopia](https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC1705655/)

[Spectacle Coverage Report](https://www.iapb.org/learn/resources/spectacle-coverage-report/)

[Planning for VISION 2020 at the District Level: A Manual](https://www.iapb.org/learn/resources/planning-for-vision-2020-at-the-district-level-a-manual/)

[National Eye Health Coordinator Manual](https://www.iapb.org/learn/resources/national-eye-health-coordinator-manual/)

[Kilimanjaro Centre for Community Ophthalmology](https://www.kcco.net/resources/manuals-reports/)

[The accomplishments of the global initiative VISION 2020: The Right to Sight and the focus for the next 8 years of the campaign](https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC3491262/?report=classic)

[Cataract incidence in sub-Saharan Africa: what does mathematical modeling tell us about geographic variations and surgical needs?](https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/24070099/)

[Outcomes of high volume cataract surgeries in a developing country](https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC1772816/)

[Human resources for refraction services in Central Nepal](https://www.tandfonline.com/doi/abs/10.1111/cxo.12286)

## Books
[The Epidemiology of Eye Disease 3rd Edition](https://www.worldscientific.com/worldscibooks/10.1142/p742)

## Classification
[ICD-10 Chapter VII Diseases of the eye and adnexa](https://icd.who.int/browse10/2016/en#/VII)
- [ICD-10 Chapter VII Diseases of the eye and adnexa Block H53-H54 Visual disturbances and blindness](https://icd.who.int/browse10/2016/en#/H53-H54)

## Journals, Resource Centres, & Repositories
Community Eye Health Journal (CEHJ)

[IAPB Valued Supplier Scheme](https://valuedsupplier.iapb.org/)

[National Health Planning Tools · Search](https://extranet.who.int/nhptool/Default.aspx)

## Organizations
[The Queen Elizabeth Diamond Jubilee Trust](https://www.jubileetribute.org/)

[International Centre for Eye Health](https://iceh.lshtm.ac.uk/)

[The International Agency for the Prevention of Blindness](https://www.iapb.org/)

[UN Friends of Vision](https://www.iapb.org/advocate/eye-health-and-sdgs/un-friends-of-vision)

[International Coalition for Trachoma Control](https://www.trachomacoalition.org/)

[The Lancet Global Health Commision on Global Eye Health](https://globaleyehealthcommission.org/)


# Frameworks
### **5Ms**
- Management
- Manpower
- Mobility
- Material
- Money

### Health System Building Blocks
**Blocks**
- Leadership and governance
- Service delivery
- Health system financing
- Health workforce
- Medical products, vaccines and technologies
- Health information systems

**Desirable attributes**
- Improved health (level and equity)
- Responsiveness
- Social and financial risk protection
- Improved efficiency

# Abbreviations
- ICD-10: International Statistical Classification of Diseases and Related Health Problems 10th Revision (ICD-10)-WHO Version for ;2016
- ISEE: Integrated, sustainable, excellent, equitable 
- Sx: Surgery

Commit message:

doc: Framework planning - Cycle stage - Process attributes

README.md, after:

# Motivation
Experiences in intiatives addressing eliminating preventable blindness and seeing the impact improved vision has.

# Awesome list
## Calculators
[Procurement calculator for trichiasis management](https://www.trachomacoalition.org/resources/procurement-calculator-trichiasis-management)

## Articles, Reports, Presentations, & Dashboards
[The Lancet Global Health Commission on Global Eye Health: vision beyond 2022](https://www.thelancet.com/journals/langlo/article/PIIS2214-109X(20)30488-5/fulltext)

[Magnitude, temporal trends, and projections of the global prevalence of blindness and distance and near vision impairment: a systematic review and meta-analysis](https://www.thelancet.com/journals/langlo/article/PIIS2214-109X(17)30293-0/fulltext)

[Global estimates of visual impairment: 2010](https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/22133988/)

[Evaluation of a national eye care programme: re-survey after 10 years](https://bjo.bmj.com/content/84/9/948)

[Ten years to VISION 2020: how are we doing?](https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC3033617/)

[VISION 2020 - IAPB](https://www.iapb.org/about/history/vision-2020/)

[Universal eye health: a global action plan 2014–2019](https://www.who.int/publications/i/item/universal-eye-health-a-global-action-plan-2014-2019)

[World Report On Vision](https://www.iapb.org/advocate/eye-health-and-universal-health-coverage/world-report-on-vision/)

[Vision Atlas - IAPB](https://www.iapb.org/learn/vision-atlas/)

[World report on vision](https://www.who.int/publications/i/item/9789241516570)

[Video: Eye Health and the SDGs - The Lancet Global Health Commision on Global Eye Health](https://globaleyehealthcommission.org/commentary/video-eye-health-and-the-sdgs)

[Video: Equity in eye health - The Lancet Global Health Commision on Global Eye Health](https://globaleyehealthcommission.org/commentary/video-equality-in-eye-health/)

[Video: The economics of eye health - The Lancet Global Health Commision on Global Eye Health](https://globaleyehealthcommission.org/commentary/video-the-economics-of-eye-health/)

[Video: General health, wellbeing and mortality](https://globaleyehealthcommission.org/commentary/video-general-health-wellbeing-and-mortality/)

[Global Eye Health - One Billion Untreated](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=5jgRMTyCG_M)

[Outcomes of high volume cataract surgeries in a developing country](https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC1772816/)

[Unravelling ‘low-resource settings’: a systematic scoping review with qualitative content analysis](https://gh.bmj.com/content/6/6/e005190)

[Cataract and “Vision 2020—the right to sight” initiative](https://bjo.bmj.com/content/85/6/635)

[Cataract services: ensuring access for everyone](https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC4069773/)

[Beyond the clinic: approaches to outreach](https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC1705639/)

[Routine monitoring of visual outcome of cataract surgery. Part 1: Development of an instrument](https://bjo.bmj.com/content/89/1/45)

[Mapping Human Resources for Eye Health in Sub-Saharan Africa: Progress towards VISION 2020](https://www.iapb.org/learn/resources/mapping-human-resources-for-eye-health-in-sub-saharan-africa-progress-towards-vision-2020/)

[Optical services through outreach in South India: a case study from Aravind Eye Hospitals](https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC1705643/)

[Delivering refractive error services: primary eye care centres and outreach.](https://www.cehjournal.org/wp-content/uploads/download/ceh_20_63_042.pdf)

[Global Vision Impairment Due to Uncorrected Presbyopia](https://jamanetwork.com/journals/jamaophthalmology/fullarticle/420914)

[Global magnitude of visual impairment caused by uncorrected refractive errors in 2004](https://www.who.int/bulletin/volumes/86/1/07-041210.pdf)

[Uncorrected refractive errors](https://journals.lww.com/ijo/Fulltext/2012/60050/Uncorrected_refractive_errors.18.aspx)

[School Eye Health Guidelines](https://www.iapb.org/learn/resources/school-eye-health-guidelines/)

[Spectacle Wear Among Children in a School-Based Program for Ready-Made vs Custom-Made Spectacles in India: A Randomized Clinical Trial](https://jamanetwork.com/journals/jamaophthalmology/fullarticle/2618257)

[Current trends in surgical management of myopia](https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC6688407)

[Pharmaceutical intervention for myopia control](https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC3023964/)

[How to prescribe spectacles for presbyopia](https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC1705655/)

[Spectacle Coverage Report](https://www.iapb.org/learn/resources/spectacle-coverage-report/)

[Planning for VISION 2020 at the District Level: A Manual](https://www.iapb.org/learn/resources/planning-for-vision-2020-at-the-district-level-a-manual/)

[National Eye Health Coordinator Manual](https://www.iapb.org/learn/resources/national-eye-health-coordinator-manual/)

[Kilimanjaro Centre for Community Ophthalmology](https://www.kcco.net/resources/manuals-reports/)

[The accomplishments of the global initiative VISION 2020: The Right to Sight and the focus for the next 8 years of the campaign](https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC3491262/?report=classic)

[Cataract incidence in sub-Saharan Africa: what does mathematical modeling tell us about geographic variations and surgical needs?](https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/24070099/)

[Outcomes of high volume cataract surgeries in a developing country](https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC1772816/)

[Human resources for refraction services in Central Nepal](https://www.tandfonline.com/doi/abs/10.1111/cxo.12286)

## Books
[The Epidemiology of Eye Disease 3rd Edition](https://www.worldscientific.com/worldscibooks/10.1142/p742)

## Classification
[ICD-10 Chapter VII Diseases of the eye and adnexa](https://icd.who.int/browse10/2016/en#/VII)
- [ICD-10 Chapter VII Diseases of the eye and adnexa Block H53-H54 Visual disturbances and blindness](https://icd.who.int/browse10/2016/en#/H53-H54)

## Journals, Resource Centres, & Repositories
Community Eye Health Journal (CEHJ)

[IAPB Valued Supplier Scheme](https://valuedsupplier.iapb.org/)

[National Health Planning Tools · Search](https://extranet.who.int/nhptool/Default.aspx)

## Organizations
[The Queen Elizabeth Diamond Jubilee Trust](https://www.jubileetribute.org/)

[International Centre for Eye Health](https://iceh.lshtm.ac.uk/)

[The International Agency for the Prevention of Blindness](https://www.iapb.org/)

[UN Friends of Vision](https://www.iapb.org/advocate/eye-health-and-sdgs/un-friends-of-vision)

[International Coalition for Trachoma Control](https://www.trachomacoalition.org/)

[The Lancet Global Health Commision on Global Eye Health](https://globaleyehealthcommission.org/)


# Frameworks
### **5Ms**
- Management
- Manpower
- Mobility
- Material
- Money

### Health System Building Blocks
**Blocks**
- Leadership and governance
- Service delivery
- Health system financing
- Health workforce
- Medical products, vaccines and technologies
- Health information systems

**Desirable attributes**
- Improved health (level and equity)
- Responsiveness
- Social and financial risk protection
- Improved efficiency

**Planning Cycle Stage**
- Situation assessment
- Priority settings
- Identifying effective strategies
- Costing
- Resource planning and budgeting
- Programming and implementation development
- Monitoring and evalutions

**Planning Process**
- Situation analysis and programming
- Process
- Finance and auditing
- Implementation and Management
- Results, monitoring and review

# Abbreviations
- ICD-10: International Statistical Classification of Diseases and Related Health Problems 10th Revision (ICD-10)-WHO Version for ;2016
- ISEE: Integrated, sustainable, excellent, equitable 
- Sx: Surgery
